# Entry 1
##### 11/3/25

#### Content: 
The tool I decided to use is [P5play](https://p5play.org/), a JavaScript game engine built on p5.js that allows users to create interactive games and animations. I chose P5play because it allows me to easily work with **sprites and groups**, which are basically the biilding block for most games. It also had beginner friendly tutorials and resrouces which include  [P5Play learning section](https://p5play.org/learn/) and helpful  [YouTube video introducing P5Play](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQmFqhZ11K8&t=330s), which has been very beginner-friendly. So far, I’ve explored the basic properties of sprites, such as adjusting their position, size, color, and rotation, as well as how to create and manage groups using [(Soft and Dynamic Inheritance)](https://p5play.org/learn/group?page=0). For example, I practed creating individual sprites, chaning their color, and re arraging multpiple sprites in a group using **arrow function property setters** to try and randomize thier position or set them in rows. These groups let multiple sprites share traits and move together, which I found really interesting. I also explored moving all sprites in a group at once with the mouse, which helped me understand how to animate multiple objects together. I’ve been recording my progress in my learning log and experimenting with combining what I’ve learned to prepare for creating my own interactive project, which is a budgeting game. So using P5play, I can make a budgeting game where the players can interact with different object that will be displayed on the screen. They will also be able to track the amount of money and resources they will have. So my tinkering with sprite behaviors and groups will contribute directly to what my game will be like. 

### Engineering Design Process: 
Currently, I am in the first stage of the Engineering Design Process, where I am identifying specific issues in the world today. Something I noticed was that many people struggle with budgeting as they often spend way too much money on unnecessary things and leaving little room for essentials. My goal is to design a fun and interactive game that helps people of all ages learn how to budget in an engaging and enjoyable, which can be used in their daily life. 

### Skills:
Some skills I gained along the way include independent learning skills, as I learned how to teach myself new concepts in JavaScript and P5play through watching tutorials, reading documentation, experimenting with code, and recording my progress in my learning log. So I  developed an understanding of sprites as I learned how to control their position, size, color, rotation, and shape. In addition, I also improved my research and Google skills, such as figuring out what keyword to search for when I need help on a specific thing. I use techniques such as control F to find what I need to learn so it can contribute to what I want to include in my Budgeting game. For example, when I have to search up “P5play arrow function group sprite random position,” and found tutorials and code examples that explained it clearly. Using that information, I was able to set up `group.x = () => random(width)` and `group.y = () => random(height)` to generate multiple sprites in random locations on the canvas, which I then wrote down in my learning log so I can keep track of what I learned. These skiils helped me find solutions to my coding problems when I'm trying to tinker and experiment with codes and overall ehnance my ability to learn and fix problems.



[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
